Adding new context method local_md5  for v1.4 (#2658)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/local_md5.md

---
title: "local_md5"
id: "local_md5"
---

> <Changelog>New in 1.4.0</Changelog>

Reviewer: We don't use these `<Changelog>` entries any more. This system predated the introduction of versioned pages + `VersionBlock`, with the intent of replacing it entirely.

Instead, we should add this page to the [`exports.versionedPages` list](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/current/website/dbt-versions.js#L28), with `"firstVersion": "1.4"`. That requires having added v1.4 to the `exports.versions` list, as described in https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/issues/2427. (It looks like that change is missing from https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/2646.)

Author: Great catch. I'll get the export.versions list updated as part of #2534

> The `local_md5` context variable calculates an MD5 hash of the given string. It's called "local_md5" to emphasize that it runs locally in dbt (in jinja context) and not an MD5 SQL command.

Reviewer: Suggesting more context:
```suggestion
The `local_md5` context variable calculates an [MD5 hash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MD5) of the given string. It's called `local_md5` to emphasize that the hash is calculated _locally_, in the dbt-Jinja context. This function is intended for generally advanced use cases: generating unique identifiers within custom materialization or operational logic, such as to avoid collisions between temporary relations, or to identify changes by comparing checksums.

It should not be confused with the `md5` SQL function, supported by many SQL dialects, which runs remotely in the data platform. You should always use SQL hashing functions when generating <Term id="surrogate-key">surrogate keys</Term>.
```

Usage:

> ```
> {% set value_hash = local_md5("hello world") %}
> ```

Reviewer: Recommend including the "compiled" result as well. Two suggested options, one simpler and one fancier. Try both out, and get a feel for what feels good!

(Note the `<delete this line and replace with ```>` in the suggestions below, I couldn't figure out how to escape a codeblock within a codeblock)

1. Keeping it simpler:
```suggestion
```sql
-- source
{%- set value_hash = local_md5("hello world") -%}
'{{ value_hash }}'

-- compiled
'5eb63bbbe01eeed093cb22bb8f5acdc3'
<delete this line and replace with ```>
```

2. Getting a little fancier, using "tabs" (our custom React component):
```suggestion
<Tabs
  defaultValue="source"
  values={[
    { label: 'Source code', value: 'source', },
    { label: 'Compiled code', value: 'compiled', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="source">

<File name='my_model.sql'>

```sql
{%- set value_hash = local_md5("hello world") -%}
select '{{ value_hash }}' as my_md5_hash
<delete this line and replace with ```>

</File>

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="compiled">

<File name='my_model.sql'>

```sql
select '5eb63bbbe01eeed093cb22bb8f5acdc3' as my_md5_hash
<delete this line and replace with ```>

</File>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```
